The R programming language is
a useful tool for data scientists.
Most production code in industry is
written in languages such as C++ and
Java that you may already know.
Using these languages for
data analysis and visualization
is usually not very effective.
R is much better suited in these cases
as it is fast to develop code in it and
experiment with it.
But in many cases, engineers and
scientists need a combination of R and
a fast production language like C++ and
Java.
We will start with a brief
description of R and
how it is related to other languages,
and then describe its basic syntax.
As the lesson progresses, we will learn
additional features of the language
until at the end you will be able to
write reasonably effective R programs.
We will also spend some time going over
scalability issues related to R and
how to handle them.
The lesson is divided
into four sections.
Getting started with R.
Data types in R.
Control flow and functions in R.
And scalability and interfaces in R.